in the next few videos we'll talk about
large-scale machine learning that is
algorithms for dealing with big data
sets if you look back at the recent five
or ten-year history of machine learning
one of the reasons that learning
algorithms were of so much better now
than even say five years ago it's just
the sheer amount of data that we have
now and that we can train our algorithms
on in these next few videos we talk
about algorithms but dealing with when
we have such massive data sets so why do
we want to use such large data sets
we've already seen that one of the best
ways to get a high performance machine
learning system is if you take a low
bias learning algorithm and train that
on a lot of data and so one early
example they were already seeing was
this example of classifying between
confusable words so for breakfast I ate
two T wo eggs and we saw in this example
these sorts of results where you know so
long as you feed the algorithm a lot of
data it seems to do very well and so
this results ideas that has led to the
saying in machine learning that often is
not who has the best hamburger wins is
who has the most data so we want to
learn from large data sets at least when
we can get such large data sets but
learning with large data sets comes with
his own unique problems specifically
computational problems let's say your
training set size is M equals a hundred
million and this is actually pretty
realistic for many modern data sets if
you look at the US census data set if
there are you know 300 million people in
the US you can use to get hundreds of
millions of records if you look at the
amount of traffic that popular websites
get you easily get training sets are
much larger than hundreds of millions of
examples and let's say you want to train
a linear regression model or maybe a
logistic regression model in which case
this is the gradient descent rule and if
you look at what you need to do to
compute the gradient which is this term
over here then when M is a hundred
million you need to carry out a
summation over a hundred million terms
in order to compute this derivative term
and to perform a single step of gradient
descent because of the computational
expense of summing over a hundred
million entries in order to compute just
one step of gradient descent in the next
few videos we'll talk about techniques
for either replacing this algorithm or
something else or to find more efficient
ways to compute this derivative by the
end of the sequence of videos on
large-scale machine learning you know
how to fit models linear regression
logistic Russian neural networks and so
on even two data sets with say a hundred
million examples of course before we put
in the effort into training a model with
100 million examples we should also ask
ourselves well why not use just a
thousand examples maybe we can randomly
pick a subset of a thousand examples out
of a hundred million examples and train
our algorithm on just a thousand
examples so before investing the effort
into actually developing the software
needed to train these massive models
there's often good to sanity check if
training on just a thousand examples
might do just as well
the way it's a sanity check of using a
much smaller training set might do just
as well that is if using a much smaller
N equals 1000 size training set might do
just as well it is the usual method of
plotting the learning curves so if you
were to plot the learning curves and if
your training objective where to look
like this that's J train theta and it's
your cross-validation set objective JCV
of theta would look like this then you
know it looks like this does like a high
variance learning algorithm and we would
be more confident that adding extra
training examples would improve
performance whereas in contrast if you
were to plot the learning curves if your
training objective where to look like
this and if your cross-validation
objective was to look like that then
this looks like the classical high bias
learning algorithm and in the latter
case you know if you were to plot this
up to say M equals 1000 and so that's a
equals 500 to M equals 1,000 then it
seems unlikely that increasing m to a
hundred million would do much better and
then you'd be just fine sticking to any
calls a thousand rather than investing a
lot of effort to figure out how to scale
at the algorithm of course if you were
in the situation shown by the figure on
the right then one natural thing to do
would be to add extra features or add
extra hidden units to a neural network
goal and so on so then you end up with a
similar situation and closer to down on
the Left where maybe this is up to M
equals a thousand and this then gives
you more confidence that trying to
infrastructure or change the algorithm
to use much more than a thousand
examples that that might actually be a
good use of your time so a large scale
machine learning we'd like to come up
with computationally reasonable weights
or computationally efficient ways to
deal with very big data sets in the next
few videos we'll see two main ideas the
first is called stochastic gradient
descent
and the second is called MapReduce but
dealing with very big datasets and after
you've learned about these methods
hopefully that will allow you to scale
up your learning algorithms to big data
and allow you to get much better
performance on many different
applications